# Photo_Transfomation
Linear Algebra Lab focused on photo transformation using linear transformation of matrices


In this lab  I did some  of the common transformations in  R2 , derive their general matrix form, explain what a resulting image will look like and apply transformations to the vectors and pictures.

Each linear transformation can be represented as a matrix. In case of an image linear transformation is applied to a pixel position on xy-plane, transforming its coordinates  (x,y)  to  (x′,y′)  but retaining the color. However, the image is usually represented as an array of pixels, thus having the dimension (image height, image width, 3) if the color is represented in RGB system. You can use warpAffine() function from cv2 to perform transformations on the image, or you can implement a function that manipulates each pixel's position given an array of pixels and calculate the transformation matrix on your own.

The shape of transormation matrix is usually 2 × 3, for example, the cv.warpAffine() function only accepts a 2 × 3 matrix. This is because the third column is used for translation. Therefore in cases where translation is not needed, this third column is just zeroes. Also, if we need to make a perspective shift, we need a 3 × 3 matrix. The values affect the resulting image, because they define the positions of the pixels in the resulting image. This is achieved through by matrix vector multiplication, where a vector is a coordinate of the pixel in the initial image. For example, the shape of an image can be changed by scaling and shearing, because matrix values include some factors that change images' shape.

When we need to project the 3D object how it can be seen in eye space, we use perspective shift transformation. The perspective transformation describes how a point in three space is mapped to the drawing plane. This can be simply explained using elementary geometry. We begin by setting up coordinates. A projection involves two coordinate systems. A point in the coordinate system of an object to be drawn is given by  X=(x,y,z)  and the corresponding on the drawing plane is  P=(u,v) . Here  u=xz ,  v=yz . So when we perform a perspective shift on an image, we first go back to the 3d representation of the image, change the perspectie (the camera view) and then make a parallel projection on the plane once again. Basically, it's a manipulation with parallel projectoins of 3d space onto the 2d plane. Mathematically, we have that  perspective_matrix∗(source_x,source_y,1)T=(destination_x∗w,destination_y∗w,w) , where  w  is a distance from the point of view to the point in 3d space. Then to project it back on the plane, we divide the outcome vector  (destination_x∗w,destination_y∗w,w)  by  w  and take first two values:  (destination_x,destination_y) .
